PETE LEPAGE: Chrome
57 adds support
for display grid, a new CSS
grid layout specification.
You can now customize
and respond to user input
on the lock screen and
notifications using
the new media session API.
And there's plenty more.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 57.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Flexbox is a
powerful layout tool.
It makes many complex
layouts possible.
But it can only do
layout in one dimension.
Chrome 57 adds
support for display:
grid, the new CSS grid
layout specification,
adding a powerful
new tool for creating
two-dimensional, grid-based
layouts, optimized
for responsive user
interface design.
Elements within the grid can
span multiple rows or columns.
And regions in a
CSS grid can also
be named, making the layout
code easier to understand.
Surma has an updates post about
it, linked in the description.
And when you're ready
to dive in deeper,
check out Rachel Andrews'
gridbyexample.com site.
One of the missing features
from web media applications
has been the ability to deeply
integrate with the core media
experiences on mobile devices.
In Chrome for Android, you can
now customize the lock screen
and notifications with media
content using the new media
session API.
By providing metadata to the
browser about the content being
played, you can create
rich lock screen messages
that include information
such as the artist, title,
album name, artwork, and more.
You can also listen for and
respond to user actions taken
on the lock screen or
notification, such as seeking
or skipping.
If you want to get
started quickly,
Francois has a great
updates post about it.
Or check out the official
Chrome media session sample
repo on GitHub.
Both are linked in
the description below.
And there's lots more.
There are some improvements
to the payment request API.
You can specify the color
of the text input cursor
with a caret color property.
Visual effects such as
line color and style
can be specified with new
text-decoration properties.
The fetch API response
class now supports
the dot redirected
attribute to help
avoid untrustworthy
responses and reduce
the risk of open redirectors.
All WebKit prefixed
IndexedDB global aliases
have been removed after
their deprecation in M38.
And, one of my
favorites, new pad-start
and pad-end formatting
methods that simplify string
padding when aligning console
output or printing numbers
with a fixed number of digits.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 57
for developers.
Check the description
for more details,
and links to the documentation
and specifications.
If you want to stay
up to date with Chrome
and know what's coming next,
click the Subscribe button.
I'm Pete LePage.
And as soon as Chrome
58 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]